So hopefully everyone got a chance to finish the exercise.
Now if you didn't.
That's perfectly fine as well.
You can always attempt this again at some other point context API is going to be around because it is
part of the core react features and it looks like in some ways the team is definitely going to try and
flush it out after getting a bit of feedback from the community about how it's being used.
Now we are just going to finish up with this exercise by removing redux from our application just so
that we can see what it's like to not have redux as well.
And even then the redux portion of our application consists of such a small part now that it's very
easy to pull out after that I'm going to share with you some of my final parting thoughts about context
API versus redux for handling local state and the pros and cons of both because they do kind of both
solve the same problem and it's rare that you'll want to use an application that has two ways of storing
a local state because this kind of removes the idea of a single direction of data flow and one single
source of truth.
So I'll talk about that more a little later.
Let's first just get rid of redux in our application now inside of our index us the main place that
actually is utilizing redux is inside of this provider component.
So if we get rid of this component we're technically removing any instance of redux from our components.
Now if we get rid of this persistent persist gate we don't need these anymore either because this persists
or is for our redux.
Now you might have noticed that now whenever our page refreshes we're no longer able to actually keep
track of our state.
Therefore all the items that we added to our cart disappear while this is expected because we were leveraging
redux persist in order to store in local storage.
Now of course you can probably implement a similar solution manually using our context API but it's
definitely more verbose and you have to write the service yourself.
So that's another one of the positives of redux is that the community has fleshed out pretty good solutions
for solving a lot of these problems that are really battle tested that we kind of just pulled it but
now that we've removed redux from our index Shea ass we can simply delete our redux folder and now the
application will pretty much work the exact same because redux has now been removed.
Our application and our code nothing leverages that anymore and we can do a quick search.
If we look for Connect we don't see any search fields with connect here and now if we go back to our
application we'll actually see that everything still works the same.
We no longer of course have our logger either right but this is not really a problem because everything
is working we're able to add our cart and we are able to check out our total and we can see it we can
toggle this and then we can delete these things all using our new context API.
Now if you're having issues with this exercise right of course always remember that I have this completed
version for you as well inside of our rack context complete I'll provide the link for you in your resources
you can always just close this down and compare it to your solution when you're trying to solve this
but context API is really easy in that sense right.
It's definitely way less verbose to write than redux and that's probably the biggest benefit that context
API provides.
It's a really lightweight solution when it comes to local storage management versus something like redux
which is very opinionated in how it needs to be set up now.
The kind of context API is that what we trade for in terms of getting this efficiency and ease of use
we trade the flexibility of the redux ecosystem so we lose sagas we lose thanks.
We lose being able to handle asynchronous actions inside of our redux middleware.
And what else we lose is the compose ability of our components.
Because before we were using our higher order component connect to connect our components to the respective
selectors and the map states of props as well as the map dispatch the props that gave us the ability
to trigger different things in our components which made them way more reusable.
For example we were able to trigger different things and use our header component possibly multiple
times before because we were passing those values in through our map states props that map states props
would select from different slices of our reduced rate of our overall store.
And that was how we were able to possibly just switch out the selectors and reuse this one header component
and the header could be reused in multiple places.
The problem with context API is that we've now tightly coupled what our component needs.
So for example our header component now is not reusable anymore because our header component is tightly
coupled to using both the hidden as well as the current user properties inside of the component itself.
So that's the one big thing about context API is that it's very tightly coupling our components with
the specific contexts that it needs.
You can't just swap out the context some way and even if you do bypassing the minutes it's the wrong
way of writing your code right.
If you were to say pass in the context as possibly a prompts and then just swapping it out inside of
a used context places that's not a good pattern.
Definitely don't do that.
The other thing we have to keep in mind as well is that in order for us to properly fully leverage this
pattern we have to write this new provider wrapping pattern that I showed you in the last few lessons.
If we needed the entire application to have access to whatever context but this gets also really verbose
as our application grows because we've got to wrap more and more providers in order for our applications
have access to all the things that it needs whereas with redux it's just one provider and then it separates
out all of the stores right into their own individual reduces that we built separately which gives us
better separation and easier to read index digest file.
So what is the context.
That's a pun right there.
What's the best use case for redux versus context API.
Well when you're application you know is going to be large you probably want to use redux because the
ecosystem is fleshed out and it gives you so much more power and flexibility including all of the asynchronous
event handling and the ability to reuse your components in a much better way.
So in that case with a larger scale application that has a lot of complexity and features and reusable
components that when you look at it you know you're going to reuse a lot of the components you're going
to write definitely go with redux.
If instead you're building say it like a portfolio project or a portfolio itself or a landing page something
that doesn't have that much reuse ability and is a pretty small project maybe even small to medium sized
context API is great because you don't have to bring in redux.
You don't have to write all these new files and folder structures for redux and you can pretty much
just start using it right away so that's my thoughts on context of course context will grow right because
it is still a pretty new feature.
As of this course's release there's a very high likelihood that the react team will continue pushing
context and modifying it so that it becomes more in line with how the developer community as a whole
needs to leverage it.
So keep an eye out on it.
You can use it definitely in your smaller projects and your personal projects.
If you want to but they're all tools.
That's the main thing to keep in mind.
Redux context API.
They're both tools that solve problems and they both have their pros and cons and tradeoffs.
You just have to know when to use what.
So with that in mind I hope you go forth and build some stuff with context use context.
Read watch these videos practice what these exercises that I've given you and I'll see you in the next
lesson.